
#                                                                                   Weather Data Collection System – DevOps

The purpose of the project is to build an application that fetches real time weather report and updates for multiple cities in the USA, from an open weather website by making API request and data collected would be saved in aws S3 bucket.

# Cloud Solution
•	AWS
# Weather info resource
•	Openweathermap.org
# Project repository
•	Github.com
# Software/tools required (with Operating System in mind)
•	Visual studio code
#
•	Git with a bash terminal
#
•	Aws cli
#
•	Python 3
# Prerequisites
•	AWS account with access keys; Create aws account and generate access keys. With security in mind as part and body of this project, keys should not be generated by root user. Create /add user to aws account and permit admin privileges to registered user. Registered user
should generate access keys.
#
•	Open weather API key; Create an account with openweathermap.org. open weather API key is automatically generated.
# Execution
Project will be managed using the git bash terminal to create directories, files, write into files and edit files, write and run scripts, commands and communicate seamlessly with python, aws, v code and GitHub.
#
•	I created a folder on my local machine “weather-dashboard-demo” and created the “src” directory, “data” directory, “test” directory “readme.md” file “requirement.txt” file, “. env” file, “src/weather_dashboard.py” file, “src/__init__.py” file and ran command 
git init to initialize directory to become versioned git repository.
#
•	I configured .env file with open weather API key and aws bucket name .This file (.env) separates configuration from code and keeps sensitive info out of version control system. OPENWEATHER_API_KEY=your_openweather_api_key
  AWS_BUCKET_NAME=your_bucket_name-${RANDOM}
#
•	I configured gitignore file to ensure that files such as. env, .zip, __pycache__ remains untracked by git.
#
•	I configured requirement.txt file with dependencies such as boto3 (SDK for pyhton) which allows contact with aws and simplifies use of aws services, python-dotenv manages environmental variables and differences and requests which allows 
http request to the open weather API.
#
•	After configuring files, I ran command “pip install -r requirements.txt” to install contents of the file.
#
•	I configured environment set up on aws cli   by installing the access key, secrete key, region and output format (Jason).
#
•	I copied code into weather_dasboard.py file which will automate the process of creating S3 bucket on aws, making API request for weather info from openweathermap.org.
#
•	I ran python script on git bash terminal to automate process and execute task;” python src/weather_dashboard.py”.
# Outcome
•	S3 bucket was created on aws and weather info requested was pulled from openweathermap.org securely.
# Challenges/Issue tickets
•	Python script failed (src/weather_dashboard.py. S3 bucket wasn’t created and weather info from three regions (Philadelphia, New York and Seattle).
#
•	I was restricted from writing in the weather-dashboard-demo directory in my local machine.Folder by default was set to read only for other users.
# Resolution
•	My knowledge of Linux came in very handy. I read the error message and manually edited the .env file. I realised I had case sensitive errors and typographical error. File was edited correctly and script was rerun to produce expected result.
#
•	I manually elevated permission to RW on the weather-dashboard-demo directory. 
# What I learned
•	Appreciation of dept understanding of Linux. Very useful in a bash terminal.
#
•	Aws S3 bucket creation and management.
#
•	Environmental variable management for secure API keys and the importance of security from the planning stage and through out the life cycle of project.
#
•	Python best practices for API integration.
#
•	Git work flow for project development.
#
•	Error handling in distributed systems.
#
•	Cloud resource management.







